Well, right now we get to add the final feature, which is to update the student's grade.
Let's go through the process.
First, we're going to add an update button inside of each table row.
That's easy.
We'll just look inside of the HTML cheat sheet.
And then step two, the update button when pressed, will make a get request to access the form.
This is new because normally we're making get requests directly from the browser, but this time one
of your HTML elements is going to make a get request.
And in step three, the update button is actually going to pass a parameter into the get request before
it makes it.
The parameter will be the student name whose grade we want to update.
And in step four, the handler method will use the parameter to fetch the students.
Upon receiving the request, the handler method will receive the parameter from inside the brackets
and it will use the parameter to look inside the data store and fetch the students.
And from there, we can update that student's grade.
So let's start with step one, which is to add an update button inside of each row.
If you look back at the HTML cheat sheet, you'll notice that an anchor element with a roll of button
is capable of making web requests.
So inside of each row that gets generated, we're going to add another data cell.
TD.
And inside the data cell, we'll add our button.
So we'll say anchor tag.
And then it will have a roll of button.
And this button will display the text updates.
Now each row that gets generated is going to have an extra data cell with a button inside.
If I were to go back, I guess I'll have to just submit some data first.
Nice, but this looks kind of ugly.
If you look back at the CCIS that was provided by our wonderful front end developer.
Your button can reference the update section of your CSIS by simply saying.
Class equals updates.
And if you look very briefly, what this is going to do is center your button.
It's going to fix up the font size.
Give it a nice background color.
When you hover over it, it's going to give it a color of orange cursor turns into a pointer.
Nothing crazy.
Let's just refresh and nice.
Our friend and developer did a wonderful job.
Now you might be wondering, Hey, Ron, you never taught us CSS again.
We're back end developers.
We don't care about HTML or CSS.
The HTML and CSS is already given to you by a frontend developer.
Your job is to simply manage how it's presented using Java and leave us.
Even adding the button is not even something that we should have done.
It's the front end developer's job to create the view.
But not to worry.
We'll take it out of their paycheck.
Now in step two, the update button should make a get request.
If you look back at the HTML cheat sheet and anchor tag can use the leaf attribute a ref to make a gut
request, and rightfully so.
It uses a link expression.
You'll remember that a link expression can specify a URL endpoint or a path to a resource.
Given the context, it's going to specify a URL endpoint.
So to my button I will add the final leaf attribute h ref and we're going to make a request to the home
page.
This URL is context relative because it already considers the host and port so we don't have to put
it.
Now step three is to pass a parameter into the get request.
The parameter will be the student name whose grade we want to update.
You can pass data into a get request by starting off with a question mark.
The question mark means you want to pass parameters into a request.
The parameter and its value are separated by an equal sign.
And the plus symbol replaces white space.
So going back here, I'm going to make a request to local host 8080.
Then I'll add a name parameter.
With a value that equals Harry.
Plus Potter.
So this is just white space.
And nothing new happens.
The user meet is still requesting resources on the empty path and the get mapping handler method is
going to return that resource.
However, behind the scenes, the get request was actually carrying a name parameter that equals Harry
Potter.
The handler method can actually receive that name string as a parameter.
So for now, all I'm going to do is actually print it.
Okay if I make that same request again.
Beautiful.
Now we need to be able to make that same gut request from the update button.
So if you were to look back at the HTML cheat sheet, the way to specify a parameter is in a file.
If expression is a bit different, you have to put your parameter and value inside of brackets.
So we'll go ahead and do just that.
Copy the syntax over to here.
The parameter is going to be name and the value will say is Harry Potter.
Now remember in a timeless expression, you should enclose your string values inside of single quotes.
So I'll go back here.
I'll submit a piece of data.
And then if I press the update button for one of them.
It passes a parameter into the get request.
The parameter is Harry Potter.
The handler method receives the parameter that the get request is carrying and prints.
It's beautiful.
Now we don't actually want to pass back a static value.
What we want to do is set the parameter equal to a variable expression.
Because remember that a variable expression will return a model attribute or a value that derives from
it.
In this case, we're going to pass back the name of the student that we're pressing update on.
Okay.
Now let's go back to grades.
Try using this update button.
It makes a get request while passing in the name parameter.
The handler method intercepts.
The request receives the name, parameter and princess.
Now, although this works perfectly, it's good practice to actually label this as being a request parameter.
So we'll say request.
Param.
Meaning this parameter can only come from a get request and nothing else.
But now, if I were to actually just go to local host 8080.
It throws an error because now we made a get request to hear, but it seems to be expecting a name parameter
and because it did not receive that request parameter, it threw an error.
So we have to say required.
Equals false.
Basically we're saying this parameter is optional because this parameter is only required when we're
making an update.
Now, after pressing update, the form contains the name of student we intend on updating.
We need to use this parameter to find the object in the ArrayList that matches it.
So inside a the grade controller create a function called find index.
Actually I will call it get grade index.
They receives a string name.
And what I'm going to do is loop through every single object inside of the student grades, array,
list, student grades, size.
And for every object that we loop through, we're going to check if that object at that index.
We'll get its name.
Does it match the name parameter that's being passed in?
If it does match, it will return the index of that object.
Otherwise, we will just return, I don't know, -1000.
This value will just represent index not found.
Now, you shouldn't actually have loose integers like this in your code.
We will fix this in the last lesson of the section.
But anyways, here, what we want to do is find the object in the ArrayList whose name field matches
the name parameter.
So what I'm going to do is create a new grade variable.
And then we will say if the index if get grade index.
Is equal to -1000.
Then we're going to set the grade variable equal to an empty grade object.
Otherwise.
Otherwise we're going to grab the object at that index and set the grade variable equal to that.
All right, let's test this out.
I'm going to need to fill the data store with some data.
Now, if I were to actually make a get request and pass in a name that doesn't match anything in our
data store.
The form is going to be empty.
The handler method received our name parameter concluded that it couldn't find anything inside the data
store set grade equal to an empty grade object and passed the empty grade object as a model attribute.
And that empty grade object is what was bound to our form.
But if I were to go back and press the update button.
So we'll go back to slash grades.
This time, the get request carries a name that matches one of the objects in the data store.
That object is being passed into the model.
And the form is now bound to this fully populated grade object.
And you can see this right over here.
Each input is bound to a field in the model object.
This is great and all, but I prefer conditional assignments syntax over if statements this is kind
of dirty.
So what I'm going to say is model dot add attribute grade and here I will check if the index is equal
to -1000, then we'll say new grade.
Otherwise will pass in the object at that index in our data store.
Seem to have a syntax error.
Oh, there should be a colon, not a comma.
Index is not a variable.
All right.
I'm really off my game today.
Sweets.
So now we can go ahead and delete all of that.
This is much better and cleaner than if else.
All right, let's start fresh.
We'll submit another grade for Harry.
We'll say C minus potions.
All right.
Now, what happens if I try to update this grade?
We'll update it to an EF.
And instead of updating the grade and added a new one.
That's because the handler method upon form submission is always just going to add a new grade to our
data store.
Then it redirects the user to make a request on slash grades.
That updated data store is added to the model and it returns the grades view.
We only want to add a new grade if it doesn't already exist.
So what we can say is if.
Get grade and ducks grade.
Dot get name if it equals to -1000.
Then we'll say.
Student grades add.
Otherwise, we want to update the array list.
Student grades set.
We will update the grade at that index.
And you know what?
Instead of calling the function twice, let me just say end index is equal to get grade index.
All right.
If we try this out now.
Start fresh.
We'll say Harry C minus potions.
We will try to update Terry's grade.
It works perfectly.
If you go back to the home page without pressing updates.
At a new student.
And we're done.
The next video is going to break point to the entire flow.
So to recap in this lesson, you updated a student's grade.
I suggest tuning into the next breakpoints lesson for a full recap.